Engineering materials
====

This repository contains engineering materials of a self-driven vehicle's model participating in the WRO Future Engineers competition in the season 2022.

## Content

* `t-photos` contains 2 photos of the team (an official one and one funny photo with all team members)
* `v-photos` contains 6 photos of the vehicle (from every side, from top and bottom)
* `video` contains the video.md file with the link to a video where driving demonstration exists
* `schemes` contains one or several schematic diagrams in form of JPEG, PNG or PDF of the electromechanical components illustrating all the elements (electronic components and motors) used in the vehicle and how they connect to each other.
* `src` contains code of control software for all components which were programmed to participate in the competition
* `models` is for the files for models used by 3D printers, laser cutting machines and CNC machines to produce the vehicle elements. If there is nothing to add to this location, the directory can be removed.
* `other` is for other files which can be used to understand how to prepare the vehicle for the competition. It may include documentation how to connect to a SBC/SBM and upload files there, datasets, hardware specifications, communication protocols descriptions etc. If there is nothing to add to this location, the directory can be removed.

## Introduction

 Our solution is a very versatile mount in which if we have problems with any of the components there would be no problem in replacing them. This of course if there is a problem in first place. We agreed on making the mount of our robot lego based. Legos are extremely versatile and readily available. This flexibility allows us to concentrate on the more complex aspects of our robot without the worry of getting bogged down by mechanical problems. In selecting a microcontroller, we opted for the MOTION 2350 Pro from Cytron Technologies, mainly because of how much voltage it could handle (up to 16V but we will use 12V) since this would allow us to have more speed. Also it has more than enough ports for the sensors and motors providing us with the flexibility to expand our capabilities as needed and works well so far. However, we did encounter some problems with this microcontroller, this because the board seems to “overfeed” current (around 1.20 microamps) to certain pins making signals unreadable. Because of this we though the sensors weren’t compatible with the board but further investigation leaded us to the conclusion that a resistor may be needed to ensure sensor signals are read properly and precisely so we have no trouble with the program. Our main motor (the one on the back) is a TT Motor (one more speed based) since we wanted more speed than torque because the other model we were using was pretty strong but very slow and it wasn’t really ideal the low speeds it runs on, so a faster motor was the solution. The turning mechanism is actioned by a micro servo which has been giving us some trouble. It seems that the servo we will be using was wrong on the datasheet since we noticed that the servo motor has a wider range than the one specified in the datasheet found online. The datasheet claimed the sg-90 servo motor had a range from 1ms to 2ms with 1.5ms being the center. But when we were testing it we found out it actually had more than claimed on the datasheet. It seems that it has around 0.9ms more from the center and 0.9ms less from the center, making it instead of 1ms to 2ms, 0.6ms to 2.4ms and 1.5ms the center. This part is the one that has given us the most trouble not only because of the servo but also the mechanical side of the turning mechanism has been troublesome. As for sensors we plan on using 2 or 3 distance/color/motion/ambient light sensors (two up front and one down for the track colors) and 2 ultrasonics sensors (one on each side to be able to maintain the robot centered while on). The ultrasonic sensors we will be using are the HC-SR04 sensors since they are small, comfortable to use, and we can easily accommodate them with the help of some adapters and, if needed, some hot glue (although this isn’t ideal since Legos may get damaged with the heat of the hot glue gun).  This sensor will make sure the robot does not crash or get too close to the walls by precisely turning the wheels just as much as needed. The color/motion/ambient light sensors we plan on using are the APDS9960 sensors and VL53L1X for long distance. These sensors have more than enough reach to be able to turn on time and are also very precise and small so its not hard to accommodate them with some adapters (and hot glue if needed).  Also, a white LED light will be used alongside the sensor that will be ubicated underneath so there’s enough illumination to detect colors properly and take the turns as intended. These sensors are the ones that will guide our robot so is very important that we get them to work properly alongside the whole mechanism. As for the code were using Micro Phyton as the language of programming, and so far, it has been great. We are programing with the Thonny app because is very accessible and didn’t take much space. Micro Phyton is not the most complex and is also not so hard to learn and use so it was one of the best options for what we wanted to do. The robot is being programed to precisely use the sensors, the servo motor and the TT motor using the full potential of the board for more speed. This will be crucial for our success and were confident it’s going get us to do an excellent performance. We plan on using a 12V battery to fully utilize the board’s potential, but in case we don’t get it on time we will be using 9V batteries since they are small and easy to replace in case we run out of charge. All the non-lego pieces are mounted using plastic adapters. These adapters are all 3d printed since is easy to get new ones in case they break or don’t work as intended. All of these were made by someone else which will be properly accredited. Although the servo adapters gave us some problem, this because when the servo didn’t fully fit in the adapter so when it was actioned it dismounted itself. On the mechanical side we made a lego based differential that ensures we have no problem when turning. The turning mechanism is also lego based with a servo adapter for the sg-90. This has given us some problems because the pieces we were using were to big for the wheels to be stable, so the wheels were a little loose. Also the piece where the wheel is mounted in is not the best since it lets the wheel too loose and that plus the problem with the turning design made turning a little unprecise. But that’s something we are currently fixing and will get fixed by the time of the competence. The hardest part so far has been making the steering system work precisely, everything else hasn’t been much of a problem. We are currently trying to get the whole team to do a bit of everything, so we all are all able to fix any possible future issues with the robot and so we all learn a bit of everything. Our coach has been very supportive going as far as paying for everything and we really appreciate it. We are all very dedicated to this and giving extra time and dedication so we can make this work and do an excellent job at it even if not the best. This has been a beneficial experience for all of us, we have all learned (deeper understanding in mechanics, robotics, programming, 3d printing), improved our skills, and gained new skills (teamwork, communication, and problem-solving skills)  that we are probably going to use in the future. 


